♪ ♪
[zapping]
Keyleth, wake up.
Keyleth! No.
An elixir. Try this.
Quickly.
VAX:
It's not working.
We're losing her!
The Whispered One
did not return.
We failed.
It was too soon.
There's nothing to be done.
Keyleth is gone.
But at least we have
what we came for.
The fuck are you talking about?!
Keyleth is still breathing.
Something's not right.
Uh, let me try, uh...
♪ Scanlan's hand ♪♪
The elixir, my spell--
that thing must be
blocking all magic.
Damn it, he's right.
Away from the orb!
We're not done with you yet.
[grunting]
Hmm?
Finders keepers.
W-Whoa.
Hey! Let's move, big guy!
[grunts]
- [panting]
- [Grog] Hey.
Easy, I got her from here.
Thank you, Grog.
Okay, wait-wait-wait,
hold up, hold up.
♪ Scanlan's hand ♪♪
Yes!
We got magic.
Vex, another elixir!
I need it, hurry!
[sighs] There's just,
there's no more.
- Keyleth...
- [whimpers]
Forgive me.
♪ ♪
- [crying]
- Brother.
I'm so sorry.
Wait. Herbs...
What else did she use?
Shorthalt! Need that magic!
Uh...
♪ Disgusting mud and spit ♪
♪ Turn into some healing shit ♪♪
Come on, work. Work.
- [grunts]
- You controlled me for years.
Now it's your turn to suffer.
What was the ritual meant to do?
Answer me!
I only answer to
the Whispered One.
But he denied me.
Abandoned me.
[Percy] I'll gladly
send you to him.
Go ahead.
You've taken my husband and
any hope of getting him back.
What more could I lose?
End me.
No. Your pain will linger.
I'll shatter your ankles
for my sister Vesper.
Your hands belong to Julius.
Each de Rolo will have
their pound of flesh,
until I flay the skin
from what's left of you.
Oh, okay, Percy,
taking this a little far.
Hey, why don't you
just lower the...
[grunting]
The fuck?
[Percy] Your suffering
will be merely a taste
of the pain you inflicted
upon my family.
[laughs]
[Cassandra] The smoke.
It's even worse.
[Vex] It's some sort of curse.
Pike felt something
clouding his soul.
I thought she meant
he was just depressed.
Something has possession of you.
[Orthax] And we are
better for it.
We? What?
Percy!
[Keyleth] That's not Percy.
Keyleth?
It's a demon. Look.
- [roars]
- [Vex] Holy shit.
How?
If it gets what it wants,
I don't think much of Percy
will be left.
Vex'ahlia, what are you doing?
Step aside.
You're going to shoot me, too?
[overlapping voices] If we must.
I know you're in there.
Darling, take off the mask.
[whimpering]
[Vex] It's all right.
You can put it down.
It... it won't let me.
- Don't do it!
- Percy. You can't!
I don't know what else to do!
[Orthax] No!
No!
[screaming]
[roaring]
Nope. Do not like.
Everyone get back.
[grunting]
- Sister!
- Don't hurt him.
He's not in control.
Fuck that, he's got Vex.
That thing can't bleed,
but Percy can.
If it's inside his mind,
his soul, only he can stop it.
We'll buy time then. Oi,
keep him from killing Delilah!
Piece of cake.
♪ Scanlan's hand! ♪
[Percy] She belongs to me!
♪ ♪
[Orthax] Shall I take over?
[grunting]
[Percy] No. No!
[Orthax] I'm afraid I must.
- Percy!
- [screaming]
[grunting softly]
[indistinct voices echoing]
[sinister laughter]
[voices continue indistinctly]
Pay attention, children.
Today's lesson
is on the subject of vengeance.
Which is more powerful,
the desire for revenge
or the ability to forgive?
Care to demonstrate?
[Cassandra whimpers]
[laughs]
Bastards!
- [sizzling]
- Top marks, Percival.
I'll kill you.
I'll kill you all!
[grunts] Goody.
Now I get to use my new toy.
Wait, Grog! You can't.
I was only gonna chop him
a little.
Let her go!
- Cassandra!
- [yelps]
- [laughs]
[panting, grunting]
[laughter echoes]
[laughs] What's the matter, son?
Not hungry?
You look pale, boy.
Like you've seen a ghost.
[door opens]
- [laughter]
- [gasps]
Death to the de Rolos.
Stop. Not again.
Not again!
I won't let you take them!
So we just wait for him
to kill us?
He has to reload eventually.
Right?
[Orthax] The hate.
Embrace it.
Or else...
[breath quivering]
You have failed us, son!
[Lord de Rolo] A family
slaughtered,
a legacy lost.
You must avenge us!
Please, son, you must!
[whimpers] I'm sorry, Mother!
Fuck, that burns.
Listen to us!
You must fight this!
[roars]
Fight. Yes.
Yes. One well-placed shot
and the pain disappears.
[Vex] Fight it!
Vex?
Wait. No.
- What are you doing to me?
- [sinister laughter]
Giving you what you wanted,
Percival.
Who are you?!
You know exactly who I am.
You summoned me. [screeches]
Your torment
and thirst for revenge
called me to your side.
An unspoken partnership.
Deep down, you remember.
Welcoming my help.
Welcoming the rage
that fueled you to create it.
The weapon.
[Percy] What are you
talking about?
[Orthax] Forged in iron
and smoke.
We struck a bargain.
I gave you the means
for revenge.
And you...
gave me souls to feast upon.
[screeches]
Liar! [growls]
You're not under a charm
anymore, damn it. Do something!
Against a demon? What?
You're his sister. Reach him.
♪ ♪
Percival!
I know you.
This isn't who you are!
It's who I want to be.
Yes, hate feels good.
It drowns the pain.
I've seen how easily
it consumes you.
It's all I have left.
If you reclaim yourself, you
won't hurt the ones you love.
Find the real Percy within.
Find my brother.
Cassandra?
I'm here for you.
We all are.
Percy, come on. We can make it.
- [gasps]
- [Cassandra yelps]
You.
You did this to me.
And you'll pay!
[all grunting]
[Orthax] The time has come.
Fire the weapon.
Be at peace.
Wait! Please, Percy.
Don't forfeit your own soul.
You know who to trust, Percival.
Yes. I do.
♪ ♪
I won't let you!
[Orthax] No!
[screaming]
[screeching]
[explosion]
♪ ♪
[Percy groans]
Percy? Say something. Is it you?
I'm afraid so.
Well, most of me anyway.
You shot me!
Yes, well, thank you
for not dying.
Yeah, you're welcome.
So, that was the most fucked-up
thing I've ever seen...
and I hang out with Scanlan.
[Delilah laughing]
How fitting.
Even in your moment of triumph,
you still managed to fall short.
What?
You had the chance to kill me
and you failed miserably.
It shouldn't surprise me,
though.
You're as spineless
as your parents.
Sylas is gone.
I know that suffering.
Losing one's family is a wound
that cannot be mended.
At least he saw the sunlight
one last time.
I knew we saved
the wrong de Rolo.
But it matters not.
You may have stopped me today.
The Whispered One
will finish what we began.
And when he returns,
cities will fall,
titans will rise,
rivers will flow
with the blood of...
[gasping]
[choking, gurgling]
[raspy gasping]
♪ ♪
I'm glad you forgave her,
brother.
But I cannot.
[Grog grunts]
[sizzling]
- Everyone ready?
- What?
You mean we have to leave
this delightful place?
Ah, da-da-da-da.
I don't think so, buddy.
[laughs]
Regardless of its origin,
it can still prove to be
an effective weapon.
What? Are you forgetting
the smoke
and the whole "I'm insane
with vengeance" thing?
The demon is gone, Scanlan.
The curse is lifted.
[sighs] Yeah,
maybe you're... Nah.
[Percy] No!
- [sizzling]
- You know how much that cost?
How bloody long it will take me
to make ano...
[screeching]
Well, I'll be damned.
Thank you, Scanlan.
All of you.
For this second chance.
Hey, how'd you know that demon
was still in there?
Total guess.
♪ ♪
[indistinct chatter, grunting]
[grunting]
[man] One more on the fire then.
- Thank you.
- You saved Whitestone.
We're in your debt, Vox Machina.
[others murmuring]
W-What do we do?
Just nod and smile, Kiki.
Of course. Our pleasure.
It was nothing, nothing at all.
Huh? Oh, hello, handsome.
Scanlan Shorthalt, rebel leader.
Yeah, you've probably
heard of me.
Anyway, I may
need a bed tonight.
You see, freedom-fighting
is tiring work.
So I was just wondering
if maybe... [yelps]
These people just survived
the apocalypse, Scanlan.
They don't need your gonorrhea.
[Grog] Oh, hello,
Mr. Giant.
I see you! [giggles]
So, w-what happens now?
Will you stay and rebuild?
A de Rolo has watched
over this land for 200 years.
My entire adult life has been
driven by fear and vengeance.
That's not the temperament
of a leader.
But you, Cass, of all our
family, you were the bravest.
You are the true heir
to Whitestone.
Me? But our betrayers,
they turned me.
Our people will see me
as a traitor.
They will see you as a survivor.
Everyone here suffered from the
Briarwoods. But you endured it.
We live as long
as Whitestone lives.
Help me ensure it lives forever.
I, uh...
I meant what I said yesterday.
I know, Vax.
And it's the first time
anyone's ever said that to me.
But we have responsibilities.
To the realm. To my Aramenté.
I... I just can't.
I'm sorry.
Oh, no. No, you're right.
I, uh, um...
I'm gonna walk away.
[sighs]
Keeper Yennen.
Did any of you see a woman named
Ripley flee from the palace?
Tattered clothes? Missing hand?
Total sociopath?
I'm afraid not. Why?
I worry we'll meet her again.
Oh, hey, what about that thing
at the top of the zipper-twat?
The, uh, spinning orb of death?
From what you told me, it must
be connected to something
beyond the veil.
One of our holy men already
went to investigate it.
[zapping]
[screaming]
Hopefully it's not dangerous.
So, we stickin' around
awhile or what?
I could get used
to being a hero.
We need to report to Emon
before Uriel's men find us
and drag us back.
Really, brother?
We could just...
Run? [laughs softly]
I think we're done with that.
Besides, you need to get punched
in the face now and then...
to know you're alive.
Right. I'll find us some horses.
[Keyleth] Oh, uh, actually...
I might be able to get us home
a little quicker.
Oh, what'd you have in mind,
green?
Well, there's this tree spell.
But, well, it only works
on trees I've seen before,
and they have to be alive,
and also I have to be
strong enough,
and I think I can only do it,
like, once a day,
so, you know what,
just forget I brought it up.
Darling. You've got this.
Right. Yeah. Uh, totally.
Thanks, Vex.
Sun Tree.
Talk to me.
♪ ♪
[laughs softly]
Aren't trees just the best?
♪ ♪
Whoa. I think I peed a little.
- Sure did, buddy.
- [Keyleth] Uh, guys?
I kinda can't hold this
for too long.
Right, everybody in!
[Grog laughing]
[grunts, laughs]
[laughs softly]
[magical chiming]
[birds chirping]
♪ ♪
[metal clinking]
[snoring]
Ow! [groans]
I hate doors.
I gotcha, buddies.
Aw, thanks, Pikey!
[squeals, laughs]
[grunts] Okay.
I can't really breathe so...
- [snoring]
- Ha ha!
My masterpiece is complete!
The epic story of our adventure.
The dragon, the vampires,
the cyclops I vanquished.
What cyclops?
Oh, I may have taken
some artistic license.
[chuckles]
Wonderful, Scanlan.
Looking forward to reading it.
[scoffs] Read it? This tale is
far too great for a lousy book.
No, our legend shall be told...
♪ In song ♪
[all groaning]
- Yes!
- [groans]
♪ Sit down, my friends ♪
♪ And I'll start rockin' ya ♪
♪ With the epic legend of... ♪
- [record scratches]
- [Jarett] Vox Machina!
[Vax] Excellent timing, Jarett.
The Sovereign has summoned you
to the Cloudtop.
What? Like, now?
♪ ♪
[quiet chatter]
Vax'ildan! [laughs]
Glad to see you alive
and with all your...
extremities intact.
Looking sharp, Gilmore,
as always.
Oh, this old thing?
Any idea what
all this fuss is about?
The criers said Sovereign Uriel
is to make a proclamation.
Seems juicy;
the whole council showed up.
Friends. In recent weeks,
Tal'Dorei has been
beset by evil,
wearing the faces
of monsters and men.
I relied on my best judgment
to meet these threats.
But sadly, that judgment
was greatly corrupted.
The truth is, I allowed
strangers into our midst,
entrusting them with power
they never should have had.
- Vox Machina...
- [gasping]
saved us from this threat...
- [relieved sighs]
- yet again.
They showed me that
the wisdom of a group,
no matter how unconventional,
outweighs that
of the individual.
There is foresight
in friendship.
My weakness put the realm
in jeopardy.
But never again.
And so, with humility,
I hereby renounce the throne
and cede the government
to the Council of Tal'Dorei.
[gasping, murmuring]
These wise patriots shall ensure
- that Emon stands forever.
- [cheering]
Now, in addition to the council
members you already know,
- we will be adding a few more.
- [high-pitched ringing]
- [groaning]
- Vex, are you all right?
Specifically, pillars of the
community who have held up...
[bell tolling]
♪ ♪
Gods above us...
[panicked chatter]
♪ ♪
[gasps] No.
[hissing]
[roars]
[roaring loudly]
♪ ♪
Chirp.